### Objectives

After this exercise, you should be able to:

- Recognize a CSS rule set
- Explain the difference between HTML and CSS
- List the elements of a CSS rule set
- State an example of a CSS rule set
- Understand and implement the `<style>` tag

### Example

We use HTML to describe the meaning and hierarchy of our content, but it doesn't say much about how that content should look.

CSS is a separate language that describes the *presentation* of this content.

CSS works by applying a list of "rules" with style information to a page. Together, these rules are called a "rule set". Here's an example:

```
h1 {
    color: aqua;
    text-align: center;
}
```

In this example:

- `h1` is a "selector" (more on that later)
- `color` and `text-align` are "properties"
- `aqua` and `center` are "values"

Together, one selector and one or more property/value pairs make up a "rule set".

Try adding this CSS to your `index.html` file. It goes inside `<style>` tags within your `<head>` tags:

```
<head>
  <title>Hello World Translations</title>
  <style>
    h1 {
      color: aqua;
      text-align: center;
    }
  </style>
</head>
```

Notice how the selector `h1` corresponds to the `<h1>` HTML tag.

Reload the page, and the header will appear in a soothing aqua color, centered on the page.

### Exercise

Let's spruce things up a bit.

- Open the [CSS Reference](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/) in a new tab.

  > For each part of the assignment, review the CSS Reference and experiment with different options.
  >
  > You may encounter terms you're not familiar with, like *sans serif*, *margin*, and *pixel* (px for short). These terms are defined in the CSS Reference.

- Using the `body` selector, create some general styles:
	- Set `background-color` to `black`.
	- Set `font-family` to `sans-serif`.
	- Set `color` to `white`.
- Using the `a` selector, set the `color` of links to `hotpink`.
- Center the logo image by making the left and right margins equal. (You'll learn more about margins later.) Using the `img` selector:
	- Set `display` to `block`.
	- Set both `margin-left` and `margin-right` to `auto`.
- Draw attention to the table headers by using the `th` selector to set `border` to `2px solid white`.

    > This is called a *shorthand property* because it sets multiple values at once. Review the [CSS border Property](http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_border.asp) reference to learn more.

For the final part of the assignment, you'll apply rules to *both* the `table` and `td` selectors, like so:

```css
table, td {
  …
}
```

- Add additional styling to `table` and `td`:
	- Set `border` to `1px solid gray`.
	- Set `border-collapse` to `collapse`.
	- Set `padding` to `10px`.

Before submitting this assignment, experiment with different values to observe their effects.
